
CLOUD SENTINEL
Autonomous Cloud Threat Intelligence & Self-Healing System
Product Requirements Document  ·  v1.0  ·  Symbiot Hackathon 2025
Domain
Open Innovation
Hackathon
Symbiot @ VVCE
Category
Cloud Security


1. Problem Statement
Cloud environments today face two simultaneous, unconnected threats. Security teams run tools that detect attackers and fire alerts. DevOps teams run tools that detect infrastructure failures and restart services. These two worlds never talk to each other. A GuardDuty alert never triggers an Auto Scaling action. A self-healing script has no idea what the attacker was targeting.

This creates a dangerous blind spot. When an attacker probes your environment and a resource simultaneously degrades — the two systems that should coordinate are completely siloed. Security teams are overwhelmed with alerts they can't act on. On-call engineers get paged at 3am to manually fix things the system should have fixed itself.

GAP
No existing tool connects threat intelligence from attackers directly to autonomous infrastructure healing decisions. That missing loop is Cloud Sentinel.

1.1 Why Existing Tools Fall Short
Tool
What it does
What it misses
AWS GuardDuty
Detects threats, sends alerts
Never triggers remediation or infrastructure action
AWS Auto Scaling
Reacts to load and failures
Has zero security context — doesn't know an attack is happening
Thinkst Canary
Deploys honeypots, alerts on access
Captures attacker data but does nothing operational with it
Nessus / ManageEngine
Scans for vulnerabilities
Reactive, not real-time, no self-healing
AWS Lambda self-healing
Can restart services
No threat intelligence feeding into its decisions

2. Solution Overview
Cloud Sentinel is an autonomous cloud security and self-healing system that does three things no existing tool does together: it baits attackers with convincing decoy assets, learns from their behavior in real time, and automatically heals real infrastructure before damage occurs — all without human intervention.

ONE LINE
We let attackers proudly break into a cardboard cutout. The moment they do, the real building locks its doors automatically.

2.1 The Building Mental Model
Think of your cloud environment as a building with four floors. This model is how you present the system to judges and stakeholders.

Floor
Name
What lives here
Tech
Floor 4 (Top)
Real Services
Production EC2, real S3 buckets, actual IAM roles — the stuff that matters
AWS EC2, S3, IAM
Floor 3
AI Detection Brain
Risk scoring, attacker profiling, similarity engine, self-healing trigger
Python FastAPI, Grok API, difflib
Floor 2
Honeypot Floor
Fake S3 bucket, fake IAM key, fake config file — pure cardboard, nothing real
AWS S3 (decoy), fake IAM credential
Floor 1 (Ground)
Entry Point
Internet traffic, bots, scanners, automated probers
S3 Event Notification, SNS, Lambda

Attackers enter at Floor 1, climb to Floor 2, and get trapped in the honeypot. They never reach Floor 4. The moment they touch Floor 2, Floor 3 fires and Floor 4 locks down.

3. System Architecture
Cloud Sentinel is built in five pipeline layers. Each layer has one job. All five must work for the demo to land. Build and test them in order.

3.1 Layer 1 — The Bait (Honeypot Assets)
Before the hackathon starts, manually create three fake AWS assets from the AWS console. These are not code — they are just AWS resources with convincing names.

Fake S3 bucket named something like company-prod-db-backup-2024 or internal-credentials-store
Fake IAM access key — create a real IAM user with zero permissions, generate an access key, and embed that key visibly in a public-facing fake config file
Fake config file — a .env or config.json uploaded to the fake S3 bucket containing the fake IAM key, a fake database password, and a fake API token

Why this works: The internet has thousands of automated bots constantly scanning cloud environments for exposed bucket names and leaked credentials. Within hours of creating these assets, something will probe them. The names must look real — generic names like test-bucket get ignored. Names like prod-db-backup-2024 get probed.

CRITICAL
Do not put any real data, real credentials, or real resource names in these honeypot assets. They must be entirely fabricated.

3.2 Layer 2 — Catching the Attacker (Event Pipeline)
The moment anything touches the honeypot S3 bucket, AWS must notify your system in near-real time. This is the most critical architectural decision in the entire project.

Why S3 Event Notifications and NOT CloudWatch
CloudWatch log delivery for S3 access events has a delay of 5 to 15 minutes. In a live demo with judges watching, 8 minutes of nothing happening ends your presentation. S3 Event Notifications triggered via SNS to Lambda are near-instant — under 3 seconds from bucket access to Lambda execution.

Event Pipeline Flow
S3 bucket access → S3 Event Notification fires immediately → SNS topic receives the notification → SNS triggers Lambda function → Lambda processes the event and POSTs structured JSON to FastAPI backend on EC2.

Lambda Function Responsibilities
Read the S3 event payload from SNS
Extract: attacker IP address, timestamp, bucket name accessed, HTTP method attempted, user agent string
Package as clean JSON object
POST to FastAPI /events endpoint on EC2
Log to CloudWatch for backup

The Lambda function must be Python. It must have an IAM execution role with permissions to: read from SNS, write to CloudWatch Logs, and invoke POST requests to the EC2 FastAPI endpoint.

3.3 Layer 3 — The Brain (Intelligence Engine on FastAPI)
FastAPI runs on an EC2 t2.micro instance and is the central nervous system of the entire system. It receives events, runs all intelligence logic, and decides whether to trigger self-healing.

3.3.1 Risk Scoring Engine
This is NOT a trained ML model. It is a weighted behavioral heuristic engine written in Python. Do not call it ML anywhere in the pitch — call it a behavioral risk engine. Judges who probe an ML claim will ask for training data and accuracy metrics you do not have.

Scoring rules (weights are additive, capped at 100):
Repeated access from same IP within 10-minute window: +40 points
Resource name contains keywords: credentials, password, secret, key, prod, backup, db: +30 points
Access time between 10pm and 6am local time: +20 points
IP address is new — no prior history in event log: +10 points
Multiple different resources accessed from same IP in short window: +15 points

Risk threshold for self-healing trigger: score >= 70. Store scores in memory (Python list/dict) — no database needed for the hackathon demo.

3.3.2 Resource Similarity Engine
When a honeypot is accessed, the system must identify which real resources are at risk. It does this by comparing the honeypot asset name to all real resource names using Python's built-in difflib library. No external install required.

Implementation: use difflib.SequenceMatcher to compute a similarity ratio between the honeypot name and each real EC2 instance name and S3 bucket name. Any real resource with similarity ratio >= 0.5 is flagged as at-risk and added to the self-healing queue.

Example: honeypot is named company-prod-db-backup-2024, real EC2 instance is named prod-db-server. SequenceMatcher finds significant overlap. The EC2 instance is flagged.

3.3.3 Grok API — Plain English Audit Log
Every action the system takes must be explained in plain English. This serves two purposes: it demonstrates AI integration which judges expect, and it creates a readable audit trail that non-technical stakeholders can understand.

For every event processed, call the Grok API with a structured prompt containing: attacker IP, resource accessed, risk score, similarity match found, action taken. Grok returns one sentence in plain English. This sentence becomes the audit log entry.

Example output: Suspicious access from 185.220.101.47 (Netherlands) attempted credential harvesting on decoy asset company-prod-db-backup-2024 — risk score 85/100 — EC2 instance prod-db-server flagged as similar target and access restricted automatically.

3.3.4 FastAPI Endpoints
Endpoint
Method
Purpose
Called by
/events
POST
Receive raw events from Lambda
Lambda function
/events
GET
Return all events for dashboard polling
React frontend
/heal
POST
Trigger Boto3 self-healing action on a resource
Internal — auto-triggered when score >= 70
/audit
GET
Return audit log entries with Grok explanations
React frontend
/status
GET
Return current risk score and system status
React frontend
/health
GET
Health check endpoint
AWS monitoring

3.4 Layer 4 — Self-Healing (Autonomous Response via Boto3)
When the risk score crosses 70, FastAPI automatically calls Boto3 to take protective action on the flagged real resource. No human clicks anything. This is the moment that makes judges lean forward.

Self-Healing Action: Security Group Restriction
The primary self-healing action is modifying the security group of the at-risk EC2 instance to restrict all inbound access except from your own IP. This is chosen specifically because it is reversible — judges will ask what happens if the auto-heal causes damage, and your answer is that every action is conservative and one API call undoes it.

Boto3 action sequence:
Identify the security group attached to the flagged EC2 instance
Save current inbound rules to the audit log (so rollback is possible)
Remove all inbound rules except port 22 from your IP
Add a tag to the instance: CloudSentinel-Status: Restricted
Log the action with timestamp, resource ID, and Grok plain-English explanation

Rollback
A /rollback POST endpoint must be implemented. It takes a resource ID and restores the original security group rules saved during the restriction action. This endpoint is shown to judges as proof the system is safe for production use.

IMPORTANT
Never implement instance termination or data deletion as a self-healing action during the hackathon demo. Restriction only. Judges will ask about safety.

3.5 Layer 5 — The Dashboard (React Frontend)
The dashboard is what judges stare at during the demo. It is shown on Laptop 1 — the System laptop. It must look alive, update in real time, and show information that is clearly meaningful at a glance. It polls the FastAPI backend every 3 seconds.

Dashboard Panels — Four Required

Panel 1 — Live Event Feed
A reverse-chronological feed of all events received. Each entry shows: attacker IP, country flag emoji, resource name accessed, timestamp, and risk score as a colored badge (green < 40, amber 40-70, red > 70). New entries animate in from the top.

Panel 2 — Risk Score Gauge
A Recharts RadialBarChart showing the current highest active risk score from 0 to 100. The gauge arc changes color: gray at 0, green below 40, amber 40-70, red above 70. Below the gauge show: total events today, total self-healing actions triggered, and current system status (Monitoring / Alert / Healing).

Panel 3 — Attacker World Map
A Recharts ScatterChart using normalized latitude/longitude coordinates to plot attacker IP locations as dots on a simplified world map background. Use ip-api.com free API (no key required, endpoint: http://ip-api.com/json/{ip}) to convert each attacker IP to country and lat/lng. Each dot pulses red when it first appears. Hovering shows country name and event count from that location.

Panel 4 — Audit Log
A scrollable log of every self-healing action taken. Each entry shows: timestamp, resource affected, action taken (Restricted / Rolled Back), and the Grok-generated plain-English explanation in italics. This panel is the most important one for non-technical judges — it shows the system's reasoning in human language.

Dashboard Tech Stack
React 18 — functional components with hooks
Recharts — RadialBarChart for gauge, ScatterChart for map
ip-api.com — free geolocation, no API key, call once per unique IP and cache result
Polling — useEffect with setInterval at 3000ms, fetch /events and /audit on each tick
No WebSockets needed — polling at 3 seconds is sufficient and simpler to build

4. The Demo — Two Laptop Setup
The demo is the entire product. Everything built must serve this 5-minute sequence. If the demo does not work cleanly, nothing else matters.

4.1 Physical Setup
Two laptops are placed in front of judges, side by side.

Laptop 1 — THE SYSTEM: React dashboard open in browser, connected to FastAPI on EC2, polling live. Risk gauge at 0. Map empty. Event feed blank. Audit log blank.
Laptop 2 — THE ATTACKER: Terminal open, attacker simulator Python script ready to run. This script uses boto3 or plain HTTP requests to access the honeypot S3 bucket, attempt to read the fake IAM key file, and touch the fake config.

4.2 The 5-Minute Demo Script
Step 1 — Setup (30 seconds)
Point to the building diagram slide. Say: Our cloud environment has four floors. Real services live only at the top. Floor 2 is entirely fake — we built it as a trap. This laptop on the left is somewhere on the internet. Watch what happens on the right when it touches our bait.

Step 2 — The Attack (10 seconds)
The team member at Laptop 2 runs the attacker simulator. Say nothing. Let the demo speak.

Step 3 — The System Responds (60 seconds)
On Laptop 1, within 3 seconds: the event feed populates with the attacker IP and country flag. The risk gauge climbs. The world map drops a dot at the attacker location. The system identifies the similar real EC2 instance. The gauge hits red. Boto3 restricts the EC2 security group. The audit log prints the Grok plain-English explanation.

Step 4 — The Punchline (20 seconds)
Point to Laptop 1. Say: Nobody touched this laptop. No human clicked anything. The system detected the threat, identified which real resource was at risk, and locked it down automatically. The real system was never touched.

Step 5 — Rollback (30 seconds)
Open the /rollback endpoint or a rollback button on the dashboard. Show the security group being restored. Say: Every action is reversible with one API call. This is production-safe.

4.3 The Attacker Simulator Script
This is a Python script that lives on Laptop 2. It must be written and tested before the hackathon begins. It is not a fake — it is a controlled demo trigger, exactly like every professional product demo uses.

What the script does:
Uses boto3 with anonymous access (no credentials) to attempt GetObject on the honeypot S3 bucket
Makes an HTTP GET request to the fake config file URL
Attempts to list bucket contents
Runs these actions in sequence with a 2-second delay between each

If real internet bots have already probed the bucket and events are showing on the dashboard, tell judges: You can already see real probes from the internet here — but let us also show you the full pipeline working end to end with a controlled trigger. Judges respect transparency.

RISK
If the attacker simulator script is not tested before April 24th, you will be writing it under pressure during the hackathon. Test it this weekend.

5. Team Responsibilities & Build Order
5.1 Role Split
Person
Owns
Deliverable
Backend Engineer
AWS setup, Lambda function, FastAPI server, Boto3 self-healing, EC2 deployment
Working event pipeline: S3 access → SNS → Lambda → FastAPI. All endpoints live. Self-healing and rollback tested.
Frontend Engineer
React dashboard, all four panels, polling logic, ip-api.com integration
Fully live dashboard polling FastAPI. All four panels rendering real data. World map, gauge, event feed, audit log all working.
ML / Logic Engineer
Risk scoring engine, difflib similarity matching, Grok API integration, attacker simulator script
Risk scorer and similarity engine integrated into FastAPI. Grok audit log generating. Attacker simulator script tested end to end.

5.2 Build Order — Critical Path
The entire system depends on the event pipeline working first. Nothing else can be properly tested until events flow from S3 to FastAPI. Build and verify each phase fully before moving to the next.

Phase 1 — Event Pipeline First: Backend sets up SNS-triggered Lambda and confirms events reach FastAPI. This is the backbone. Everyone else builds independently with mock data until this pipe is verified working.
Phase 2 — Core Logic: Backend completes all FastAPI endpoints and Boto3 heal action. ML builds scorer and Grok integration. Frontend builds all four UI panels with mock data.
Phase 3 — Full Integration: ML scoring plugs into FastAPI. Frontend switches from mock data to live polling. Run the full demo end to end and fix everything that breaks.
Phase 4 — Polish and Harden: Fix CORS. Test attacker simulator. Harden the demo path. Ensure rollback works cleanly. Test on both laptops together.
Phase 5 — Demo Rehearsal: Three full demo runs. Prepare answers to all judge questions. Assign demo roles — who drives Laptop 1, who drives Laptop 2, who handles questions.

6. Complete Tech Stack
Tool / Service
What it is
Where used
Why this specific choice
AWS S3
Cloud object storage
Honeypot decoy bucket + real resource victim in demo
Attackers actively scan for exposed S3 buckets — ideal bait
AWS SNS
Notification service
Bridge between S3 event and Lambda trigger
Near-instant delivery vs CloudWatch's 5-15 min delay — critical for live demo
AWS Lambda
Serverless Python execution
Event processor — extracts attacker data and POSTs to FastAPI
Zero server management, auto-scales, free tier sufficient
AWS EC2 (t2.micro)
Cloud virtual server
Runs FastAPI backend + acts as 'victim' real resource in demo
Always-on server needed for FastAPI; t2.micro is free tier
AWS Boto3
Python AWS SDK
Self-healing actions — restrict EC2 security group, rollback
Official AWS Python library, no alternatives
Python 3.11+
Programming language
Lambda function, FastAPI server, risk scorer, similarity engine, attacker simulator
Team familiarity, clean syntax, excellent AWS and ML library ecosystem
FastAPI
Python web framework
Central backend API server
Fastest Python framework to build and run, automatic OpenAPI docs useful for debugging
difflib
Python built-in library
Resource name similarity matching — honeypot vs real resources
No install required, SequenceMatcher solves the exact problem needed
Grok API
LLM API (xAI)
Plain-English audit log generation for every system action
Generates readable explanations judges and non-technical evaluators can understand
React 18
Frontend framework
Live dashboard — all four panels
Team familiarity, fast component iteration
Recharts
React chart library
Risk score gauge (RadialBarChart), attacker map (ScatterChart)
Works out of the box with React, no configuration needed
ip-api.com
Free IP geolocation API
Convert attacker IP to country, city, lat/lng for map
Free, no API key, 45 requests/minute — sufficient for demo traffic
GitHub
Version control
Single repo with /backend, /frontend, /ml folders
Keeps all three people's code in sync, enables parallel development without conflicts

7. UI / Dashboard Design Specification
The dashboard is what judges stare at for the entire demo. It must feel like a professional-grade threat intelligence command center — not a student project. The design references below have been selected by the team. Antigravity must study all six references and draw the strongest elements from each while maintaining a coherent, unified aesthetic across all panels.

7.1 Overall Visual Direction
The aesthetic is: dark command center meets precision security tool. Think of the dashboard as what a SOC analyst's screen would look like — dense with real information, but every element has a reason to exist. The goal is to look authoritative and alive, not decorative.

Design Principle
What it means for this dashboard
Dark background only
Near-black (#0A0C0F or similar) as the base. Never white, never light gray. The darkness makes threat indicators pop instantly.
Muted accent colors only
Cyan/teal (#00BCD4 range) for live data and system status. Amber (#F59E0B range) for elevated threat. Red (#EF4444 range) for critical and self-healing triggered. No neon, no purple gradients, no rainbow. Maximum two accent colors visible at any time.
HUD / military-grade panels
Thin hairline borders (0.5-1px). Subtle geometric corner brackets on panel edges. Data must feel monitored and precise, not presented.
Information density
Panels are data-dense but never cluttered. Every visible number must be meaningful. No decorative charts with fake or empty data.
Alive at rest
The dashboard must look alive even when no attack is happening. Slow pulse animation on monitoring indicator. Blinking cursor on event feed. Risk gauge animates smoothly as values change.

7.2 Reference Image Analysis — What to Extract From Each

Reference 1 — HUD Elements Pack (Black/white military UI)
Extract: The dashed circular radar element for the map panel background. Geometric corner bracket panel styling on all four dashboard panels. Thin hairline connector lines between elements. The overall composition density and technical feel. Do NOT extract: the monochrome-only color — Cloud Sentinel uses selective color for threat severity.

Reference 2 — World Source & Destination Map (SIEM-style)
Extract: The dark world map with glowing arc lines connecting attacker source country to destination (your AWS region). The top metric bar with severity-colored count cards (critical/high/medium/low). The bottom event-volume timeline. This is the closest reference to Panel 3. The arc lines from source to destination are the key visual — implement these. Style the map background exactly like this reference.

Reference 3 — Realtime Threat Intelligence Globe
Extract: The top stat counters (total attacks, total defenses) translate directly to Cloud Sentinel event count and self-healing count metrics. The attack trajectory arc lines from source to destination. The bottom radial percentage gauges for threat type breakdown. The teal/cyan on dark color palette — this is exactly right and must carry through the whole dashboard. Do NOT implement a 3D globe — implement as a flat 2D map instead (see Section 7.8).

Reference 4 — Radial Bar Chart (Dark, amber/red/gray rings)
This is the exact style specification for Panel 2 — the Risk Score Gauge. Implement this almost exactly. Concentric arc rings in amber, red, and gray on near-black background. Large center number in white. Right-side legend with colored dash + number + mini bar. Color mapping: amber fills for score 0-70, red fills for score 70-100. Gray ring for secondary metric (events in last 10 minutes). This reference is the single most important design input for the gauge panel.

Reference 5 — Security Dashboard (Dark purple, card layout)
Extract: The card grid layout with consistent padding and clean borders. The heatmap grid for threat tactics by time — adapt this for attack frequency by hour in Panel 3. The radar/spider chart as a secondary visualization if time permits. The top navigation bar structure. Do NOT extract: the purple color scheme — replace all purple with the cyan/amber palette from References 2 and 3. Purple reads as decorative rather than authoritative.

Reference 6 — Dark Dashboard with Sidebar Navigation
Extract: The left sidebar navigation structure — Cloud Sentinel must have a minimal sidebar with: Dashboard, Live Events, Audit Log, System Status. The metric card style (dark surface, small muted label above, large number below). The right-side activity feed — this maps directly to Panel 4 (Audit Log). The overall three-column proportional layout: sidebar + main content + right panel. This reference defines the macro layout.

7.3 Layout Specification
Zone
Width
Content
Left sidebar
220px fixed
Cloud Sentinel logo/wordmark at top. Nav: Dashboard, Live Events, Audit Log, System. Bottom: live system status indicator — slow cyan pulse = monitoring, fast amber pulse = alert, solid red = healing active.
Main content
Flex remaining width
Top row: four metric cards. Middle: Panel 3 world map at full width. Bottom: Panel 1 live event feed table.
Right panel
320px fixed
Top half: Panel 2 radial risk gauge (Reference 4 style). Bottom half: Panel 4 audit log with Grok explanations.

7.4 Panel Detail

Panel 1 — Live Event Feed
Columns: Timestamp | IP Address | Country (flag emoji + name) | Resource Targeted | Risk Score badge | Status badge. Left border on each row colored by risk: cyan = low, amber = elevated, red = critical. New rows animate in from top with 300ms fade+translateY. Newest row background flashes amber for 1.5s then fades. Monospace font for IP addresses and timestamps — makes data feel raw and real.

Panel 2 — Risk Score Gauge
Recharts RadialBarChart with three concentric arcs matching Reference 4 exactly. Outer arc: current risk score (amber below 70, transitions to red above 70). Middle arc: events in last 10 minutes normalized. Inner arc: self-healing actions today normalized. Center: large white number — peak risk score. Right legend: three rows matching Reference 4's colored dash + number + mini bar format.

Panel 3 — Attacker World Map
Flat 2D SVG world map as background. Attacker IPs plotted as pulsing cyan dots at geolocation coordinates from ip-api.com. On first appearance each dot scales in (0 to 1 over 400ms) then a single ring pulses outward once and stops — no infinite loop. Arc lines connect attacker dot to AWS region marker (Mumbai ap-south-1). Line opacity = recency: newest attack is full opacity, older arcs fade. AWS region marker is a cyan shield icon. Entire panel styled exactly like Reference 2's world map.

Panel 4 — Audit Log
Scrollable feed of self-healing events only (not all events). Each entry: small muted timestamp, then Grok plain-English explanation in white, then colored status badge (RESTRICTED in red, ROLLED BACK in green). Thin 0.5px hairline between entries. Most recent entry has colored left border matching action type. Smaller font than Panel 1 — this is secondary detail. Style matches Reference 6's activity feed.

7.5 Color Tokens
Token
Hex
Used for
bg-base
#0A0C0F
Page and sidebar background
bg-surface
#111318
Panel card backgrounds
bg-surface-raised
#181C24
Hover states, selected rows
border-subtle
#1E2533
Panel borders, row dividers
border-strong
#2A3347
Panel headers, active nav
text-primary
#E8EDF5
Main text, numbers, panel titles
text-secondary
#6B7A99
Labels, timestamps, muted metadata
text-mono
#A8B5CC
IP addresses, timestamps (monospace)
accent-cyan
#00C4CC
Live indicators, map dots, monitoring status, low risk
accent-cyan-dim
#007A80
Older map arcs, reduced-emphasis cyan
accent-amber
#F59E0B
Elevated risk 40-70, warning states, medium threat rows
accent-amber-dim
#92600A
Reduced-emphasis amber
accent-red
#EF4444
Critical risk 70+, self-healing triggered, RESTRICTED badge
accent-red-dim
#7F1D1D
Critical row background tint
accent-green
#22C55E
ROLLED BACK badge, healthy status

7.6 Typography
Element
Font
Size / Weight
Color token
Logo / dashboard name
JetBrains Mono or Space Mono
18px / 700
accent-cyan
Panel section labels
Inter or DM Sans
11px / 600, UPPERCASE, letter-spacing 0.1em
text-secondary
Large metric numbers
JetBrains Mono
36-48px / 700
text-primary
Table body text
Inter or DM Sans
14px / 400
text-primary
IP addresses and timestamps
JetBrains Mono
13px / 400
text-mono
Audit log explanation text
Inter or DM Sans
13px / 400
text-primary
Status badges
Inter or DM Sans
11px / 600
white on colored background
Muted metadata
Inter or DM Sans
12px / 400
text-secondary

7.7 Animation Rules
New event row: fade-in + translateY(-8px) over 300ms ease-out. Row background flashes amber for 1.5s then returns to normal.
Risk gauge arc: Recharts animationDuration={800}. Stroke color transitions amber to red as score crosses 70 threshold via CSS transition.
Map dot first appearance: scale 0 to 1 over 400ms, then one single pulse ring expands and fades — one cycle only, never loops.
Sidebar status indicator: 2s pulse cycle during normal monitoring. 0.5s fast pulse during alert. Solid red static during self-healing.
Self-healing triggered: affected row border flashes red three times (600ms each) then stays solid red with RESTRICTED badge.
Nothing animates continuously except the sidebar status indicator. No floating particles, no background animations, no spinning elements.

7.8 Hard Constraints — What Antigravity Must Not Do
NON-NEGOTIABLE
These constraints are final. Violating any of these requires a rebuild.

Do not use purple, pink, or violet as any accent color anywhere in the application
Do not use white or light-colored backgrounds on any element or panel
Do not use gradient backgrounds — flat dark surfaces only throughout
Do not use bright neon versions of cyan or amber — use the muted hex values in Section 7.5 exactly
Do not use border-radius above 8px — panels must feel geometric and precise, not soft or rounded
Do not implement a 3D globe — flat 2D SVG world map only. A 3D globe cannot be made performant in React and will lag during the demo
Do not use any chart library other than Recharts — consistency across components is required
Do not show a loading spinner on the dashboard — use an empty state with blinking cursor in the event feed if no data has arrived yet
Do not animate anything continuously except the sidebar status indicator — all other animations fire once on data change then stop

8. Judge Q&A Preparation
These are the four questions every technical judge will ask. Every team member must know these answers cold before walking into the venue.

Q1: How is this different from AWS GuardDuty?
A
GuardDuty detects threats and sends alerts. It never takes any action on your infrastructure. Auto Scaling reacts to load but has zero security context. Our system is the missing bridge — threat intelligence from the honeypot directly drives the infrastructure healing decision. That loop does not exist in any commercial or open-source tool today.

Q2: How is this different from Thinkst Canary?
A
Thinkst Canary deploys honeypots and sends alerts. It captures attacker data but does absolutely nothing with it operationally. Our system takes the attacker's behavior and uses it as the trigger for automatic infrastructure protection. Canary is a detector. Cloud Sentinel is a detector plus a responder plus a healer — connected in one pipeline.

Q3: What ML model are you using and what is it trained on?
A
We deliberately chose not to use a trained ML model. What we built is a behavioral risk engine — weighted heuristic rules based on attacker behavior patterns documented in threat intelligence research. The architecture has a clear plug-in point for an anomaly detection model once real production event data is available. We chose accuracy over inflated claims.

Q4: What if the self-healing action causes more damage than the attack?
A
Every action Cloud Sentinel takes is conservative and reversible. We restrict security group rules — we never terminate instances or delete data. Before any action, the current state is saved to the audit log. Rollback is one API call. We demonstrated the rollback in the demo. This is specifically designed to be safe in production environments.

9. Pre-Hackathon Setup Checklist
Everything on this list must be done before April 24th. Walking in with these completed means the first two hours of the hackathon are verification, not setup.

AWS Setup (Backend Engineer — do this weekend)
Create AWS account or confirm personal account has free tier available
Create honeypot S3 bucket with convincing name — enable public read, enable server access logging
Create SNS topic — configure S3 to send all ObjectCreated and ObjectAccessed events to this topic
Create Lambda function in Python — subscribe to SNS topic — confirm test event reaches Lambda
Launch t2.micro EC2 instance — install Python 3.11, pip, FastAPI, uvicorn, boto3
Configure IAM role for Lambda with permissions: SNS read, CloudWatch write, EC2 describe
Configure IAM role for EC2 with permissions: EC2 describe, EC2 security group modify
Create one real EC2 instance with a name similar to your honeypot bucket — this is the victim in the demo
Confirm end-to-end: access honeypot bucket manually → Lambda fires → event prints in CloudWatch

Code to Write Before April 24th
Attacker simulator script (Python) — test it against the honeypot bucket from a different machine
Risk scoring function — test with mock event objects, confirm scoring logic is correct
difflib similarity function — test with honeypot name vs real resource names
FastAPI skeleton — confirm it runs on EC2 and is reachable from a browser
React app scaffold — confirm npm run dev starts without errors

Day-of Setup Verification (First 30 minutes)
Confirm EC2 FastAPI server is running and reachable
Confirm Lambda is deployed and SNS subscription is active
Confirm React frontend can reach FastAPI /events endpoint (check CORS — add allow_origins=['*'] to FastAPI)
Run attacker simulator once — confirm event appears on dashboard within 5 seconds
Confirm Grok API key is set as environment variable on EC2

10. Known Risks & Mitigations
Risk
Likelihood
Impact
Mitigation
CloudWatch delay makes demo slow
High if using CloudWatch
Demo killer
Use S3 Event Notifications → SNS → Lambda. Do not use CloudWatch for the event pipeline.
Real attacker doesn't probe during demo window
Medium
Demo loses live element
Attacker simulator script is ready and tested. Use it transparently — tell judges it's a controlled trigger.
CORS blocks frontend from reaching FastAPI
High if not pre-configured
Dashboard shows no data
Add allow_origins=['*'] to FastAPI CORS middleware. Test the frontend-to-backend connection explicitly before the demo.
Grok API rate limit or downtime
Low
Audit log shows no explanations
Cache Grok responses. Fall back to a template string if API fails. Don't let Grok failure block the core pipeline.
EC2 IAM role missing security group modify permission
Medium
Self-healing action fails silently
Test the security group modification explicitly before April 24th. Not during the demo.
Team member blocked waiting for another's code
Medium
Wasted effort
Everyone builds with mock data independently. Only integrate after each component is individually verified.
AWS costs run up during demo
Low
Post-hackathon bill
Set AWS billing alert at $5. t2.micro + Lambda + SNS costs cents per hour.

11. The Pitch — What to Say

OPENING
When the Wayanad landslide hit, nobody knew where to send help first. When an attacker probes your cloud, you face the same problem — information everywhere, no automatic response. Cloud Sentinel solves the second problem permanently.

Tagline to memorize:

We don't just detect attackers. We let them in, trap them, and automatically protect everything they were actually after.

Three things that must come through in every presentation:
The gap is real — GuardDuty and Auto Scaling don't talk to each other. That's not an opinion, that's AWS documentation.
The demo is live — that IP address on the map is real. The healing action just happened. Nothing was staged.
It's production-safe — every action is reversible. We showed you the rollback.


Appendix — Quick Reference
FastAPI Server Startup Command
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000 --reload

ip-api.com Geolocation Call
GET http://ip-api.com/json/{ip_address} — returns: country, city, lat, lon, isp. Free. No API key. Rate limit: 45 requests/minute. Cache all results by IP — never call twice for the same IP.

difflib Similarity Example
import difflib
ratio = difflib.SequenceMatcher(None, 'company-prod-db-backup-2024', 'prod-db-server').ratio()
# Returns a float 0.0 to 1.0. Flag if ratio >= 0.5

Grok API System Prompt
You are a cloud security audit logger. Given an event object, write exactly one sentence in plain English describing what happened, what risk was detected, and what action the system took. Be specific about IP addresses, resource names, and risk scores. Never use technical jargon. Write as if explaining to a business executive.

React Polling Pattern
useEffect(() => { const id = setInterval(async () => { const r = await fetch('/events'); const d = await r.json(); setEvents(d); }, 3000); return () => clearInterval(id); }, []);

Cloud Sentinel — PRD v1.0 — Symbiot Hackathon 2025 — Open Innovation